Identity and access management, also known as IAM,
is one of those services that you cannot escape when learning AWS.
It can be a bit intimidating to learn it at first.
So today we are going to try to distill down
what you really need to know about IAM.
And by the end of this episode, you will know what IAM is
and why it's so important,
how authentication and authorization works with IAM,
how policies work, how users and applications can get credentials,
and a few general interesting tips and tricks.
My name is Eoin, I'm joined by Luciano,
and this is the AWS Bites Podcast.
IAM
So this is a video for starters,
but also for those who are struggling,
like a lot of people, I feel,
with making sense of the various concepts of IAM.
How do we start with this one?
What is IAM? How would you just explain it to a beginner?
Yeah, I guess the simplest way to describe IAM is just define the acronym.
So it means Identity and Access Management,
which basically tells us that it's a service in AWS
that allows us to define identities and access
to different resources.
In another way of saying it,
it's basically a way to apply fine-grained permissions
to different types of services and resources.
And it is very important
because it's not like an isolated service.
It really has ramification in everything you do with AWS.
So you really need to understand how it works
because probably in your day-to-day work with AWS,
you need to define permissions.
You need to understand what's the language
behind those permissions, the policy language,
and how to read and write different policies.
So all the stuff means that you basically need
to be very familiar with IAM to be proficient with AWS.
So, yeah, I guess maybe we can explain next
how does it work at a very high level.
What do you think?
Yeah, let's try that.
So the main thing with IAM is that you're trying to grant
access to resources for specific principles of some sort.
So a principle is going to be a user or a service.
So maybe you can think about the formula
as being made up of who.
So what's the user or the service?
Who's trying to access something?
And what level of access you're giving them?
So what are the actions that you want this user or service
to be able to perform?
And what are the resources associated with this action?
So who are you giving access to?
What can they access and what actions can they perform?
So if we break that down a little bit, right,
we're talking about resources.
So what is a resource?
AWS has hundreds of services and each of those services
generally allows you to create resources.
So we're talking about an S3 bucket is a resource,
a Lambda function is a resource,
an API gateway, API is a resource.
They have other things like a load balancer,
an EC2 instance or a CloudWatch log group.
Everything is a resource, right?
And you can define access to those resources
or to within specific subsets of those resources
in some cases, actually.
Then we can talk about the principle, right?
So the principle, as we mentioned, could be a user,
but it could also be an AWS service itself.
So people may be familiar with an IAM user.
When you, IAM user is one of the older principles there.
So you can create users in IAM and use that essentially
as a way for people to log on to AWS and do stuff.
And you can log on by the username and password
on the console, or you can use keys.
What about services?
So what, can you think of some good examples
that would be illustrative of what a non-human interaction
with IAM would be?
Yeah, for instance, I don't know,
if you are creating an application that runs on an EC2,
for instance, that application probably needs to access
all the resources in AWS, maybe needs to send a message
to an SQS queue, maybe needs to write files to S3.
So that application will need somehow to be authorized
to perform those actions.
And yeah, it's important to understand that by default
in AWS, everything is blocked by default.
So if we don't explicitly say that that application
is authorized to perform those actions on those resources,
you will get a permission error when running the application
in an AWS environment.
So that's, I think, a good example and applies
to every compute layer, even Lambda or ECS,
they would need to have some sort of policy applied to them
that guarantees them that they can perform certain actions
against AWS APIs and resources.
Okay, that's interesting that you mentioned
that everything is, you don't have access by default,
you're denied by default.
So it becomes a little bit challenging, I guess,
you have to understand how do you grant access
to this one specific thing for the specific principle
under specific conditions, maybe.
And that can be hard to get right and probably explains
why a lot of people like to use wildcards for everything
and grant access, because it's just easier.
But of course, maybe something people can take
from this episode is that it is possible to be specific.
It's just a question of understanding how.
So where do we start?
How do you define those relationships between users,
actions and resources?
Yeah, I think the main concept to explore
is this concept of policy.
We already mentioned it a few times.
So what does it mean?
A policy is basically a document that is generally written
in JSON format.
And this document contains like a description
of a particular permission or set of permissions.
So let's try to describe what are the main parts
of a policy.
Generally a policy contains one or more statements.
So in a policy, you could have multiple statements,
but yeah, so imagine that a policy starts with an array
of things in a way, right?
And in this array is literally where you try to define
those relationships between the different concepts
that we defined so far.
So there is going to be resources, actions
and other things.
So let's go in order and describe all of them.
Generally the first thing that you see
is something called effect.
So there is a property inside a statement called effect
and the value of this property can be either allow or deny.
Now this is interesting because most of the times
you will need to write policies with an effect allow
because you are trying to allow access to something.
Rarely you will need to write explicit denies
for specific actions.
So I don't want to go too much into detail right now,
but imagine that you need to explicitly say,
I want to allow something to happen
or I want to deny something to happen.
Most of the time you're just gonna write allow effects.
Then we have another section called action
and action is actually interesting
because it can be either just a string
or an array of strings.
And the idea is that you can put together
in a single statement, multiple actions.
And an action is a string that identifies a specific action
that you could perform against a set of resources.
And they are generally name spaced for instance,
by service, I think is most commonly the case.
An example can be S3 create bucket.
And an interesting thing is that you can specify
wildcards there.
So for instance, you could say S3 column asterisk,
that means any action available in the S3 service,
I am for instance allowing it if the effect is allow.
You can also wildcard more specifically,
like you can narrow down a specific subset of S3 actions.
For instance, you could say S3 column create asterisk,
that basically means all the action names
that starts with S3 column create,
like S3 create bucket or S3 create access point,
or I don't even know if there are others.
But yeah, this is generally common for instance,
to try to distinguish read and write actions.
Sometimes you can classify all the read actions
with like a prefix and then an asterisk
and similarly with the write actions.
It can be a little bit dangerous
because sometimes you end up allowing more permissions
that you really want to.
So just word of conscious,
don't try to use asterisk as less as possible,
unless you are really sure that you are describing
the very limited subset of actions
that you are interested into.
And then the last interesting part of a policy is resource.
And again, resource is an array or a string.
So you can have either one single string
or multiple strings
because you can group together multiple resources.
How do you define a resource?
Like what is the content of the string
that identifies a resource?
And you generally do that using an ARN,
which basically means Amazon Resource Name.
And you can imagine that as a unique ID
for every single resource that exists in an AWS account.
The interesting thing is that this unique ID
are not like pseudo random values,
like I don't know, increment that integers or UUIDs,
but actually they have a very well-defined structure.
So you can follow like a namespace
and then you can have an account region and so on.
So basically it's like a tree
and you can also use wildcards at some point to say,
take all the sub tree there.
And the common example is when you want to allow,
I don't know, for instance,
read access to a set of files in S3,
you can do that either by prefix
because you can say, I don't know,
the name, the ARN of the packet
slash a certain prefix and then asterisk,
or I don't know,
if you want to give access to the entire packet,
all the files in the packet,
you just say the ARN of the bucket slash asterisk.
So it's actually a really interesting approach from AWS
to give you this ARNs in a way
that you can easily define expressions
to describe an entire subset of resources.
And then I think there is a more advanced use case
about condition.
Do you want to talk about that, Eoin?
Yeah, that's probably worth talking about
because I think conditions
are becoming more and more common.
They were less so in the past,
but they're becoming more expressive.
So conditions allow you to have more fine grained access
for specific resources.
So you can grant access to S3 to create a bucket,
for example,
but you can also restrict it to certain conditions.
For example, you might only want to have a condition
which allows people to create objects in S3,
but only if they have a.lutiano extension.
That's one example.
There's also other ones like based on the tag
and the request or the tag of the actual principle,
you can kind of use it to enforce access control
based on the user's principle.
And every specific service has a different set of conditions
that they support,
as well as there being global conditions
that are supported as well.
So other examples are,
if the source IP address is within a certain CIDR block
or you're coming from a certain VPC,
there's lots and lots of different conditions supported
and that's really growing, like I said.
So one of the things we can link to in the show notes
is a document I really, really like,
and I have bookmarked,
which outlines all the actions, statements, resources,
and conditions that are supported
for all the different AWS services.
So it's definitely a go-to
when you're trying to develop policies.
Very complicated issue,
but you can be extremely specific.
Yeah, and it sometimes feels like a real burden
having to do this for people,
but it's really powerful as well
because it allows you to enforce really good security.
Mm-hmm.
Where do people start then as a user
when they're trying to get up and running with AWS,
maybe in their own account
or in an account they've been given in their organization?
Yeah, that's a very good question.
So I suppose as a user,
if you're just starting to learn AWS,
it's probably okay to have an admin role
and just use that to log into the web console
and play around and try to create different things,
destroy them and see what happens.
But of course, that's not acceptable for a production account.
Like if you have a production account
where you are deploying production applications,
try to limit as much as possible write access for humans.
Limit that to read access
because of course you need people to be able to log in
and check if everything is working correctly,
read the logs and all these kind of operational tasks,
but try to limit the amount of write that everyone can do.
And a much better approach in that case
would be to have an account that is dedicated to deployment
into production accounts.
You provision CI-CD pipelines in those accounts
and those pipelines will do all the changes
in the production account for you.
And the idea is that you reduce as much as possible
like uncontrolled write access from people
and you try to do that in a programmatic and auditable way.
So you try to have processes that will do that
with a very well-defined, I don't know,
pipeline or set of steps
and all the steps will give you all the trails
that you can use in the future to make sure
that everything is happening as expected.
This is kind of the best practice.
So don't be afraid to just use an admin user
for your own testing stuff,
play around and try to learn as much as possible.
But when you start to move to production,
then having an admin account there is kind of a big no-no.
So try to be careful at that point.
And I think we can approach the same topic
also for applications.
So are there, I don't know, best practices,
how do you start to define permissions
for applications instead?
Yeah, ideally you want anything that's important
in your system not to be triggered by a user,
but to be automatically triggered by some code running
in EC2, Lambda or a container maybe.
So the idea there is that you will create a role,
an IAM role and you attach policies to it.
Same kind of policies we've already described.
So you're giving permissions to that programmatic piece
of code running there to write to the bucket
or to put a message on the queue.
And you try and be restrictive
and you would then associate that role
with the resource in some way.
So with an EC2, you have like an instance role
or in Lambda, you have an execution role
and lots of AWS services have a place
where you can link the role that that service
is going to use.
And when you create that role, you have to say,
I'm going to trust EC2 to assume this role.
And the idea then is that you try to keep that minimal
as possible because if access is ever compromised
to that compute environment, you want to minimize
that blast radius, minimize what people can do.
So there's a couple of other things there.
Maybe it's worth mentioning the identity
and access management access analyzer tool
that you can use and it can analyze your roles for you
and let you know if you've over assigned privileges
that aren't being used.
That's a really good one.
Is there anything that people should be aware of here
when they're developing code, creating a role for it?
Some people are probably used to running that code
also locally.
When they run it locally,
they're not necessarily using the same privileges.
What kind of practice would you recommend
to make sure that people have a good understanding
of what to watch out for there?
Yeah, that's a very good one.
I think we'll explain a little bit more later
in this episode, how the whole credential system
works and maybe at that point, more gaps will be filled
and everything will be more clear.
But basically one thing that happens
when you are testing something locally,
when you're running, for instance,
a Lambda function somehow locally,
is that generally you have authenticated yourself
through the AWS CLI using your own personal credentials.
So as a user, you probably have in a development account,
admin credentials or very extensive set
of permissions anyway.
So you are basically running your local environment
with those credentials.
So what can happen is that you have a false sense
of security because you see your application being able
to do a bunch of different things and you think,
okay, this application is ready to go
and be shipped somewhere.
Then you deploy that application to some environment
and as soon as you run it, you bump into a permission issue.
And there you have to realize that there is a disconnect
between when you run things locally
and that local environment inherits
your own personal permissions as opposed
to when you run the same application
in an AWS environment.
And in that environment,
the environment is not necessarily inheriting
your own permissions.
It's probably gonna have a more restrictive set
of permissions that maybe you haven't even defined.
So the permission set is literally as small as possible
for that particular application.
So yeah, it's important to understand how to basically go
and define those application permissions
and make sure that they actually work
for your production use cases.
I was hearing, I think you mentioned it to me a few days ago
that on Twitter, somebody was mentioning
that that might be an interesting feature
for tools like SAM to be able to actually run
a local simulation with real credentials.
The ones you are specifying for the function, because that's the tricky bit.
Even if you are specifying a role, for instance,
when you use SAM for a particular Lambda function,
then when you run that function locally,
it's still using your own personal credentials
and not the roles that you have defined.
So even if you define the roles,
it can be very misleading, that experience.
You might think, okay, it's using these roles
that maybe you think you define correctly,
then you ship to production.
There was an error, but you haven't tested that locally.
You only realize in production.
So that's another thing that might bite you,
especially at the beginning.
And it's a little bit tricky to realize
what's actually going on there.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I think we've talked about policies
being attached to roles.
It might be worth just covering briefly where policies fit
in with the various other pieces that they can be attached
to.
So we said we can attach them to IAM users
and also IAM user groups.
Now, a lot of people say don't use IAM users
in groups before.
And we did cover this a little bit in episode 12,
when we talked about how to manage your AWS credentials,
link will be below.
And the alternative to that is to use AWS single sign-on.
We're not going to go into that in much detail now,
again, refer to that previous episode,
but you can also attach your policy statements,
put them into these SSL permission sets,
and they kind of get converted into IAM roles
under the hood.
But you also have specific services
that can have policies attached.
So these are sometimes called resource policies,
but an example of a resource policy is an S3 bucket policy.
And that allows you to have specific policies
that are attached to the resource itself.
And that policy gets combined with all the other policies
that come into play, like your identity policy.
And the two policies together will work
to determine the permissions.
We've already covered then the EC2 case
and the ECS case where applications
will generally assume a role
and will inherit policies and permissions from that role.
So it's probably, maybe we can briefly cover
the interesting technical details
about how AWS recognizes who you are,
what your principle is,
whether you're using a user or an EC2 instance,
takes that, what it knows about you,
and converts that into some sort of allow or deny
for every API call or SDK call you make.
Yeah, I think that's a very good way
of understanding a little bit more how things work
and therefore make the right assumptions
when you are building an application for AWS.
So there are generally two phases.
The first phase is authentication
and the second phase is authorization.
And authentication is generally,
AWS needs to understand who you are
as a person or as a service.
And then authorization is based on the principle
that was identified during the authentication phase.
Is this principle authorized to perform a specific action
on a certain resource?
And in a certain context,
if you put also the condition set
that you can have in a policy, right?
So all these rules needs to be evaluated,
but the rules are evaluated only after
that it's clear to AWS who the user actually is.
So it's very important to distinguish these two phases.
Now, how do you define what's the user?
It changes a little bit,
depending if you are doing a logging on the web console.
So it's kind of a manual user
that is in the web console doing things.
Or if you're doing something programmatically
through either the CLI or the SDK,
which bot are using underneath the AWS APIs.
So when you are logging in manually,
you generally provide your credentials
through username and password.
Or if you use federated login,
you probably go through a login flow,
a federated login flow that involves, I don't know,
your Google identity provider or Azure ID, whatever.
Instead, when you're doing something programmatically,
you probably have seen that there is this concept of keys
to identify credentials.
And keys are generally a couple of access key
and secret access key,
access key ID and secret access key, actually.
And this is generally what you need to use
when you authenticate your local CLI,
but also what you could use when you do API calls
or use the SDK.
Now, it's very interesting.
There is something I really like,
and I'm maybe a little bit nerdy about this stuff,
about the authentication protocol
that is actually used underneath when calling APIs on AWS,
because it's a signature-based protocol.
And I really like this kind of protocols.
But the idea is that basically
most of the applications when you write,
when you need to have some sort of authentication,
there is a flow that is like,
okay, I'm gonna send my credentials somewhere.
I'm gonna get a session token or a cookie or whatever.
And then I keep using that session ID
to communicate with a backend, right?
And that's a little bit annoying
because you have these two distinct phases.
I need to get my authentication first with my token,
and then with the token, I can do whatever I want to do.
In AWS, you don't need to do all of that
because you already have your secret access key
and your key ID.
And the way that it works is basically
every single request is signed using your secret.
So you never really send the secret to AWS.
You only use it to sign every single request.
So this way you can just fire the request straight away
without having to create a session first.
And this is documented in the SIGV4,
which stands for signature v4 protocol.
So it's actually well-documented and you can read it.
You can even implement it yourself if you really want to.
But I just find it very interesting
because it's something that I always liked from AWS.
And sometimes I even implemented myself in my own APIs
with my own authentication.
Not necessarily like 100%,
but you can take some principles from this approach
and use them yourself.
So we're gonna have a link to the protocol
in the show notes.
But there is another interesting way,
maybe Eoin you want to talk a little bit more about that.
Like if you are an application,
don't just copy paste those credentials into the application.
But yeah, how do you do it in that case?
Yeah, that's a good point.
You want to avoid generally copying,
pasting credentials everywhere.
So there's lots of tools you can use
and you can look into it more
to avoid having to copy paste credentials,
particularly with SSO.
But if you're talking about your application, right?
So your EC2 instance or your ECS container, for example,
you never have to provide environment variables
for a process running in that EC2 instance,
like your secret access key and access key ID.
You don't have to put those into environment variables.
You do not want to do that.
Instead, there are mechanisms already in place.
We talked about the role that you can attach
to your EC2 instance and the role you can attach
to containers and Lambda functions.
AWS already has a mechanism built in
that will seamlessly under the hood,
allow that instance to get authorized access
to the resources in that role's policy.
So if you've got an instance role attached
to your EC2 instance, AWS has something called
the instance metadata service.
There's actually two versions of it,
version one and version two.
You should use version two because it's the secure one.
But it allows you, under the hood, it will, the SDK,
if you make an SDK call to put an object in a bucket,
it will use that metadata service to check
the instance role and authorize the principal,
authorize that code to perform that action or not.
So you don't, there's a basic, essentially a little HTTP
endpoint available inside of EC2 and also ECS
that performs that for you under the hood.
You can look into the details of that if you're curious,
but otherwise it will just work.
The AWS SDKs are already designed to check for credentials
in a specific order, and it'll vary depending
on which language you use, but generally it's looking
at environment variables, then your credentials file,
and then these metadata services.
So that's something to bear in mind,
avoid you putting secrets in environment variables
as always.
Another one to, another thing to be aware of is the STS.
When you're dealing with IAM, from time to time,
you'll see the session token service or STS pop up.
It's used in a lot of different places, but very briefly,
if you've got a federated identity, like sign on
with Google or maybe SAML sign on with Active Directory,
you can use the session token service to exchange
your federated identity for some AWS credentials.
And that's gonna be really useful.
It's used in SSO, but it's also used in Cognito
for providing access to the front end to gain direct access
to services on the backend.
You can also use it very effectively if you want to,
if you have a user who's authenticated in one account,
they can use it to get access to another account.
So the account you're trying to get access to can grant
cross account access essentially for you to assume a role
in that destination account.
And it means that you don't have to create users
and have credentials for every account you need to work in,
which would be very difficult to manage
and ultimately not very secure.
So STS allows you to do an assume role action.
And if you're somebody who ends up working
with multiple accounts, you'll end up using that explicitly
or implicitly one way or the other.
Like even in the AWS console, when you switch role
that will use an STS assume role under the hood.
So it's great because it avoids you having to create users
everywhere and manage lots of credentials.
Yeah, absolutely.
Do we have any final tip maybe before?
I think, yeah, I think at this point, right,
there's so many resources that are really powerful, right?
But one thing to mention is that we've got lots
of different types of policies.
We talked about the identity based policies.
We talked about resource policies.
You also have something called a permissions boundary,
which is like another set of policies
that can be attached to your role
that restrict further what that role can do.
Organizations sometimes use this
to be more, to provide more guardrails.
And then you also have the service control policy,
which is like the organization level control
that says within this account or this set of accounts,
you cannot do these things.
It's something, it's the kind of policy actually
where you would encounter deny quite often.
And all of these things work together.
It's generally like an intersection
of all of the different policies,
but there's a really good document
called policy evaluation logic on the AWS docs,
which we can link to.
And it's got a nice diagram of the whole flow,
how at the start it results in an allow or deny.
We've got some other really useful references
in the show notes.
I want to call out a few videos though, finally.
There's quite a good one on IAM core concepts.
If you want to just explore the fundamentals there,
it's on, it's a Be a Better Dev YouTube channel.
And we've also got two really good ones,
which I tend to share quite frequently.
One from Becky Weiss at AWS about AWS identity
and another one from Bridget Johnson,
which is a really good one called
becoming an IAM policy master in 60 minutes or less.
I think if you understand everything in those videos,
you will truly be in the top 5% of IAM users in the world,
because there's just so many useful tips in them.
So thanks very much for joining us
and for sharing and liking these episodes.
Please send us your feedback
and let us know what else you'd like to learn
about security or any other topic.
And we'll see you in the next episode.
["Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy"]